---
layout: post
description: 
categories: [new-testament]
title: Thy Faith Hath Saved Thee
image: images/jesus_miracle_healing.jpeg
---

## Introduction
> ***Hospitality***, in Ancient Israel, was considered ***a very important virture***. It was common to extend hospitality to travelers and guests.  It was also common for people to eat together in groups. Meals were often shared on low tables, with guest reclining on cushions or mats.  Reading from [My Jewish Learning](https://www.myjewishlearning.com/article/jewish-hospitality/) and from personal experience I believe that this customer continues in certain cultures ...

Nov 11, 2007 email to Lora... BYU was closed, church was on Saturday.  I started walking at the top of Mount of Olives.  Found a really friendly man who invited me to his house.  There were all kinds of people living there (socilaizing and passing through).  This was probably the highlight of my day but I was anxious to see the sites.

In retrospec March 2023, perhaps I should have lingered to better understand what it meant when ***Jesus sat to meat***.  Enjoying meal and spending time with fellow travelers and the owner of the house.

### Publicans, They sat down to meat
> The term "sat down to meat" is an old-fashioned way to say "they had a meal together".  The "meat" could refer to any type of food, not specifically animal flesh. There is something timeless about sharing a meal together and breaking bread with others.  

- Mathew 9:9-13 A man named Mathew
    9 ¶ And as Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man, named Matthew, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose, and followed him.

    10 ¶ And it came to pass, as Jesus sat at meat in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples.

    11 And when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto his disciples, Why eateth your Master with publicans and sinners?

    12 But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.

    13 But go ye and learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice: for I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.

- Mark 2:13-17 He saw Levi 
    14 And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphæus sitting at the receipt of custom, and said unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him.

    15 And it came to pass, that, as Jesus sat at meat in his house, many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and his disciples: for there were many, and they followed him.

    16 And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat with publicans and sinners, they said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners?

    17 When Jesus heard it, he saith unto them, They that are whole have no need of the physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.

- Luke 5:27-32 All accounts mention the Publican and Follow me
    27 ¶ And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow me.

    28 And he left all, rose up, and followed him.

    29 And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them.

    30 But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners?

    31 And Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician; but they that are sick.

    32 I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.


### Pharisees, They sat down to meat, a woman knew and brought an alabaster box
Luke 7:36-50
36 ¶ And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee’s house, and sat down to meat.

37 And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee’s house, brought an alabaster box of ointment,

38 And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment.

39 Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for she is a sinner.

40 And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he saith, Master, say on.

41 There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty.

42 And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most?

43 Simon answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged.

44 And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head.

45 Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came in hath not ceased to kiss my feet.

46 My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment.

47 Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little.

48 And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven.

49 And they that sat at meat with him began to say within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also?

50 And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.